# A Novel Framework for Optimizing Turbine-Deflector system using Kriging Surrogate Model and Quantum Salp Swarm Algorithm

Savonius turbines, prominent in small-scale wind turbine applications operating under low-speed conditions, encounter limitations due to opposing torque on the returning blade, impeding high efficiency. A viable solution involves mitigating this retarding torque by directing incoming airflow through a cylindrical deflector. However, such flow control is highly contingent upon the location and size of the cylindrical deflector, and its angular velocity. This study introduces a novel design optimization framework tailored for enhancing the turbine-deflector system's performance. Leveraging surrogate models for computational efficiency, six different models were assessed, with Kriging selected for subsequent analysis based on its superior performance at approximating the relation between design parameters and objective function. The training data for the surrogate model and the flow field data around the system were obtained through Unsteady Reynolds-Averaged Navier Stokes (URANS) simulations using a sliding mesh technique. An in-house code for the Quantum-based Salp Swarm Optimization (QSSO) algorithm was then employed to obtain design parameters corresponding to the peak power coefficient (Cp) for the stationary deflector-turbine system. Additionally, the QSSO algorithm was quantitatively compared with nine other competing algorithms. The optimized stationary deflector-turbine system showed an improvement of 26.94% in Cp at Tip Speed Ratio (TSR) of 0.9 compared to the baseline case. Further investigation into the effect of deflector rotational velocity (ωd) revealed significant improvements: 40.98% and 11.33% enhancement at ωd = 3 rad/s, and 51.23% and 19.42% at ωd = 40 rad/s, compared to configurations without a deflector and with the optimized stationary deflector, respectively at a TSR of 0.9.

"Singh, P., Jaiswal, V., Roy, S., Tyagi, A., Kumar, G., & Singh, R. K. (2024). Quantum-Based Salp Swarm Algorithm Driven Design Optimization of Savonius Wind Turbine-Cylindrical Deflector System." arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.04876.
